README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">FastAPI Async SQLModel Boilerplate</h1>

<p align="center" markdown=1>
  <i>Supercharge your FastAPI development. A backend for perfectionists with deadlines and lovers of asynchronous programming.</i>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/joaoflaviosantos/fastapi-async-sqlmodel-boilerplate">
    <img src="https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/80658056/293617785-78ad080b-2416-473a-91cd-0adc33acf027.png" alt="White and blue rocket with FastAPI text on it. A Python logo floating next to the rocket." width="35%" height="auto">
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.python.org">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white" alt="Python">
  </a>
  <a href="https://fastapi.tiangolo.com">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-005571?style=for-the-badge&logo=fastapi" alt="FastAPI">
  </a>
  <a href="https://sqlmodel.tiangolo.com">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQLModel-7E56C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=sqlmodel&logoColor=fff" alt="SQLModel">
  </a>
  <a href="https://docs.pydantic.dev/2.4/">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Pydantic-E92063?logo=pydantic&logoColor=fff&style=for-the-badge" alt="Pydantic">
  </a>
  <a href="https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQLAlchemy-D71F00?style=for-the-badge&logo=sqlalchemy&logoColor=fff" alt="SQLAlchemy">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.postgresql.org">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-316192?style=for-the-badge&logo=postgresql&logoColor=white" alt="PostgreSQL">
  </a>
  <a href="https://redis.io">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Redis-DC382D?logo=redis&logoColor=fff&style=for-the-badge" alt="Redis">
  </a>
  <a href="https://docs.docker.com/compose/">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?logo=docker&logoColor=fff&style=for-the-badge" alt="Docker">
  </a>
  <a href="https://nginx.org/en/">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NGINX-009639?logo=nginx&logoColor=fff&style=for-the-badge" alt=NGINX>
  </a>
</p>

🚧 _Note: This project is currently under development and is a work in progress._ 🚧

## 🔍 Project Overview

This **FastAPI** boilerplate for high-performance APIs leverages async programming alongside libraries such as **SQLModel**, **Redis**, **ARQ**, **NGINX**, and **Docker**. It follows a Django-inspired folder structure for a clear, modular codebase. Key areas like `system/users` and `blog/posts` showcase the optimal balance between **modularity and clarity**.

It aims to provide a **robust structure** while serving as an excellent tool for quick **POC** (Proof of Concept) validations and **MVP** (Minimum Viable Product) launches. Crafted to attract enthusiasts who appreciate how Django operates, this project offers a **solid foundation** for API development, incorporating a blend of **cutting-edge technologies** and structural principles.

## 📦 Featured Aspects

This project seeks to provide a **strong foundation for API development**, incorporating a blend of cutting-edge technologies and structural principles:

- ⚡️ **Fully Async:** Leverage the power of asynchronous programming.
- 🚀 **FastAPI:** Utilize FastAPI for rapid API development.
- 🧰 **SQLModel 2.0:** Seamlessly integrates with SQLAlchemy 2.0 for versatile Python SQL operations, reducing the mapping between persistence and transport classes. Using Pydantic v2 can result in performance improvements from 5x to 50x compared to Pydantic v1.
- 🔐 **JWT User Authentication:** Secure user authentication using JSON Web Tokens.
- 🍪 **Cookie-based Refresh Token:** Implement a refresh token mechanism using cookies.
- 🏬 **Easy Redis Caching:** Utilize Redis for simple and effective caching.
- 👜 **Client-side Caching:** Facilitate easy client-side caching for improved performance.
- 🚦 **ARQ Integration:** Seamlessly integrate ARQ for efficient task queue management.
- ⚙️ **Efficient Querying:** Optimize database queries by fetching only what's needed, with support for joins.
- ⎘ **Pagination Support:** Out-of-the-box pagination support for enhanced data presentation.
- 🛑 **Rate Limiter Dependency:** Implement a rate limiter for controlled API access.
- 👮 **Secure FastAPI Docs:** Restrict FastAPI docs behind authentication and hide based on the environment.
- 🦾 **Easily Extendable:** Extend and customize the project effortlessly.
- 🤸‍♂️ **Flexible:** Adapt the boilerplate to suit your specific needs.
- 🚚 **Docker Compose:** Easily run the project with Docker Compose.
- ⚖️ **NGINX Reverse Proxy and Load Balancing:** Enhance scalability with NGINX reverse proxy and load balancing.

## 🎯 Project Goals

- [x] Leverage the power of FastAPI for building high-performance APIs.
- [x] Implement asynchronous programming wherever applicable for optimal performance.
- [x] Integrate Redis for caching, rate limiting, and improving data access speed.
- [x] Utilize ARQ for handling background tasks asynchronously.
- [x] Implement a robust logging system to track and manage application events efficiently.
- [x] Manage database migrations seamlessly using Alembic.
- [x] Develop comprehensive unit tests for API endpoints using pytest.
- [x] Implement using SQLModel to streamline the interaction between the database and the API.
- [ ] Enhance scalability with NGINX reverse proxy and load balancing.
- [ ] Utilize supervisorctl for managing FastAPI and ARQ services.
- [ ] Implement containerization of the application with Docker for easy deployment and scalability.

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following prerequisites installed and configured:

- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org): Set up a PostgreSQL database.
- [Redis](https://redis.io): Install and configure a Redis server.
- [Python](https://www.python.org): Make sure to have Python 3.11 or a newer version installed on your system.
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org): Install Poetry for managing dependencies.

**Note:** Soon, there will be an additional option for development using Docker containers.

### Installing Poetry

Poetry is a dependency manager for Python. Follow the steps below to install Poetry:

1. Open a terminal.

2. Run the following command to install Poetry using pip:

   ```bash
   pip install poetry
   ```

3. Verify the installation by running:

   ```bash
   poetry --version
   ```

   This should display the installed Poetry version.

4. With Poetry installed, you can now proceed to install the project dependencies.

## 🛠️ Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/joaoflaviosantos/fastapi-async-sqlmodel-boilerplate.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```bash
   cd fastapi-async-sqlmodel-boilerplate/backend
   ```

3. Install dependencies using Poetry:

   ```bash
   poetry install
   ```

4. Define environment variables in ".env":

   - Copy the ".env.example" file as ".env":

     ```bash
     cp .env.example .env
     ```

   - Open the ".env" file and modify the environment variables accordingly.

     **Note:** Make sure to set a secure and unique value for the `SECRET_KEY`.

     You can generate a secure secret key using the following command:

     ```bash
     poetry run python -c "from fastapi import FastAPI; import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(32))"
     ```

## 🔀 Database Migration

To create tables in the database, run Alembic migrations:

```bash
poetry run alembic revision --autogenerate
```

And to apply the migration:

```bash
poetry run alembic upgrade head
```

## 🚀 Running the Backend

Start the FastAPI application:

```bash
poetry run uvicorn src.main:app --reload
```

Start the ARQ worker:

```bash
poetry run arq src.worker.WorkerSettings
```

## 🧪 Running Tests

Run tests using pytest:

```bash
poetry run python -m pytest -vv ./tests
```

## 🚧 Pre-Commit Instructions

Before committing changes, ensure that you've activated the virtual environment in 'backend/.venv' at the root of the project. This step is crucial for the successful execution of pre-commit hooks. Activate the virtual environment using the following command in the root folder of your project:

```bash
source backend/.venv/bin/activate
```

After activating the virtual environment, pre-commit hooks will check your commits before they are committed.

Feel free to use this boilerplate as a starting point for your own projects, and adapt it based on your specific requirements and use cases. Happy coding! 🌟

## 🌐 Reference Projects

- [FastAPI Boilerplate by Igor Magalhães](https://github.com/igorbenav/FastAPI-boilerplate)
- [FastAPI Alembic SQLModel Async by Jonathan Vargas](https://github.com/jonra1993/fastapi-alembic-sqlmodel-async)
- [The Ultimate FastAPI Async Setup by Evgeniy Tretyakov](https://github.com/ETretyakov/hero-app)

Commit message:

chore: Enhance setup.sh script and README.md
This commit brings improvements to the setup.sh script, refining comments for clarity and consistency. Additionally, minor adjustments have been made to the README.md file to enhance documentation clarity and formatting. The project goals section in the README has been updated to include compelling options for diverse deployment strategies.

# Changes in setup.sh:
- Improved comments for better understanding and consistency
- Enhanced user interaction by allowing 'yes' as a valid input for additional commit description

# Changes in README.md:
- Fine-tuned documentation for better clarity and formatting
- Updated project goals with attractive deployment options for flexibility and accessibility

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">FastAPI Async SQLModel Boilerplate</h1>

<p align="center" markdown=1>
  <i>Supercharge your FastAPI development. A backend for perfectionists with deadlines and lovers of asynchronous programming.</i>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/joaoflaviosantos/fastapi-async-sqlmodel-boilerplate">
    <img src="https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/80658056/293617785-78ad080b-2416-473a-91cd-0adc33acf027.png" alt="White and blue rocket with FastAPI text on it. A Python logo floating next to the rocket." width="35%" height="auto">
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.python.org">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white" alt="Python">
  </a>
  <a href="https://fastapi.tiangolo.com">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-005571?style=for-the-badge&logo=fastapi" alt="FastAPI">
  </a>
  <a href="https://sqlmodel.tiangolo.com">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQLModel-7E56C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=sqlmodel&logoColor=fff" alt="SQLModel">
  </a>
  <a href="https://docs.pydantic.dev/2.4/">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Pydantic-E92063?logo=pydantic&logoColor=fff&style=for-the-badge" alt="Pydantic">
  </a>
  <a href="https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQLAlchemy-D71F00?style=for-the-badge&logo=sqlalchemy&logoColor=fff" alt="SQLAlchemy">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.postgresql.org">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-316192?style=for-the-badge&logo=postgresql&logoColor=white" alt="PostgreSQL">
  </a>
  <a href="https://redis.io">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Redis-DC382D?logo=redis&logoColor=fff&style=for-the-badge" alt="Redis">
  </a>
  <a href="https://docs.docker.com/compose/">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?logo=docker&logoColor=fff&style=for-the-badge" alt="Docker">
  </a>
  <a href="https://nginx.org/en/">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NGINX-009639?logo=nginx&logoColor=fff&style=for-the-badge" alt=NGINX>
  </a>
</p>

🚧 _Note: This project is currently under development and is a work in progress._ 🚧

## 🔍 Project Overview

This **FastAPI** boilerplate for high-performance APIs leverages async programming alongside libraries such as **SQLModel**, **Redis**, **ARQ**, **NGINX**, and **Docker**. It follows a Django-inspired folder structure for a clear, modular codebase. Key areas like `system/users` and `blog/posts` showcase the optimal balance between **modularity and clarity**.

It aims to provide a **robust structure** while serving as an excellent tool for quick **POC** (Proof of Concept) validations and **MVP** (Minimum Viable Product) launches. Crafted to attract enthusiasts who appreciate how Django operates, this project offers a **solid foundation** for API development, incorporating a blend of **cutting-edge technologies** and structural principles.

## 📦 Featured Aspects

This project seeks to provide a **strong foundation for API development**, incorporating a blend of cutting-edge technologies and structural principles:

- ⚡️ **Fully Async:** Leverage the power of asynchronous programming.
- 🚀 **FastAPI:** Utilize FastAPI for rapid API development.
- 🧰 **SQLModel:** Seamlessly integrates with SQLAlchemy 2.0 for versatile Python SQL operations, reducing the mapping between persistence and transport classes. Using Pydantic v2 can result in performance improvements from 5x to 50x compared to Pydantic v1.
- 🔐 **JWT User Authentication:** Secure user authentication using JSON Web Tokens.
- 🍪 **Cookie-based Refresh Token:** Implement a refresh token mechanism using cookies.
- 🏬 **Easy Redis Caching:** Utilize Redis for simple and effective caching.
- 👜 **Client-side Caching:** Facilitate easy client-side caching for improved performance.
- 🚦 **ARQ Integration:** Seamlessly integrate ARQ for efficient task queue management.
- ⚙️ **Efficient Querying:** Optimize database queries by fetching only what's needed, with support for joins.
- ⎘ **Pagination Support:** Out-of-the-box pagination support for enhanced data presentation.
- 🛑 **Rate Limiter Dependency:** Implement a rate limiter for controlled API access.
- 👮 **Secure FastAPI Docs:** Restrict FastAPI docs behind authentication and hide based on the environment.
- 🦾 **Easily Extendable:** Extend and customize the project effortlessly.
- 🤸‍♂️ **Flexible:** Adapt the boilerplate to suit your specific needs.
- 🚚 **Docker Compose:** Easily run the project with Docker Compose.
- ⚖️ **NGINX Reverse Proxy and Load Balancing:** Enhance scalability with NGINX reverse proxy and load balancing.

## 🎯 Project Goals

- [x] Leverage the power of FastAPI for building high-performance APIs.
- [x] Implement asynchronous programming wherever applicable for optimal performance.
- [x] Integrate Redis for caching, rate limiting, and improving data access speed.
- [x] Utilize ARQ for handling background tasks asynchronously.
- [x] Implement a robust logging system to track and manage application events efficiently.
- [x] Manage database migrations seamlessly using Alembic.
- [x] Develop comprehensive unit tests for API endpoints using pytest.
- [x] Implement using SQLModel to streamline the interaction between the database and the API.
- [ ] Provide diverse deployment options to ensure flexibility and accessibility.

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following prerequisites installed and configured:

- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org): Set up a PostgreSQL database.
- [Redis](https://redis.io): Install and configure a Redis server.
- [Python](https://www.python.org): Make sure to have Python 3.11 or a newer version installed on your system.
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org): Install Poetry for managing dependencies.

**Note:** Soon, there will be an additional option for development using Docker containers.

### Installing Poetry

Poetry is a dependency manager for Python. Follow the steps below to install Poetry:

1. Open a terminal.

2. Run the following command to install Poetry using pip:

   ```bash
   pip install poetry
   ```

3. Verify the installation by running:

   ```bash
   poetry --version
   ```

   This should display the installed Poetry version.

4. With Poetry installed, you can now proceed to install the project dependencies.

## 🛠️ Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/joaoflaviosantos/fastapi-async-sqlmodel-boilerplate.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```bash
   cd fastapi-async-sqlmodel-boilerplate/backend
   ```

3. Install dependencies using Poetry:

   ```bash
   poetry install
   ```

4. Define environment variables in ".env":

   - Copy the ".env.example" file as ".env":

     ```bash
     cp .env.example .env
     ```

   - Open the ".env" file and modify the environment variables accordingly.

     **Note:** Make sure to set a secure and unique value for the `SECRET_KEY`.

     You can generate a secure secret key using the following command:

     ```bash
     poetry run python -c "from fastapi import FastAPI; import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(32))"
     ```

## 🔀 Database Migration

To create tables in the database, run Alembic migrations:

```bash
poetry run alembic revision --autogenerate
```

And to apply the migration:

```bash
poetry run alembic upgrade head
```

## 🚀 Running the Backend

Start the FastAPI application:

```bash
poetry run uvicorn src.main:app --reload
```

Start the ARQ worker:

```bash
poetry run arq src.worker.WorkerSettings
```

## 🧪 Running Tests

Run tests using pytest:

```bash
poetry run python -m pytest -vv ./tests
```

## 🚧 Pre-Commit Instructions

Before committing changes, ensure that you've activated the virtual environment in 'backend/.venv' at the root of the project. This step is crucial for the successful execution of pre-commit hooks. Activate the virtual environment using the following command in the root folder of your project:

```bash
source backend/.venv/bin/activate
```

After activating the virtual environment, pre-commit hooks will check your commits before they are committed.

Feel free to use this boilerplate as a starting point for your own projects, and adapt it based on your specific requirements and use cases. Happy coding! 🌟

## 🌐 Reference Projects

- [FastAPI Boilerplate by Igor Magalhães](https://github.com/igorbenav/FastAPI-boilerplate)
- [FastAPI Alembic SQLModel Async by Jonathan Vargas](https://github.com/jonra1993/fastapi-alembic-sqlmodel-async)
- [The Ultimate FastAPI Async Setup by Evgeniy Tretyakov](https://github.com/ETretyakov/hero-app)
